In a previous lecture,
we said that new interesting solutions are
emerging in the big data product space.
While these solutions do not have
the full fledged power of a DBMS,
they offer novel feature combinations that
suit some application space just right.
One of these products is Aerospike,
which calls itself a distributed
NoSQL database and
key value store, and
goes on to say that it is architected for
the performance needs of
today's web scale applications.
The diagram here is from
an Aerospike whitepaper.
It shows how Aerospike relates to
the ecosystem for which it is designed.
The top layer shows several applications
for real time consumer facing systems,
such as travel recommendation systems,
pricing engines used for
stock market applications,
real time decision systems that
analyze data to figure out whether
an investment should be done and so forth.
Now, all of these systems
have the common need
that large amounts of data should be
accessible to them at any point of time.
The Aerospike system can interoperate
with Hadoop-based systems, so
Spark, or a Legacy database, or
even a real time data source.
It can exchange large volumes
of data with any such source and
serve fast lookups and
queries to the applications above.
Now that translates to a very
high availability robust and
strong consistency needs.
The figure here presents a high level
architecture diagram of Aerospike.
The first item to notice here
is what they call a fast bat,
which essentially refers to
the left side of the architecture.
The client system processes transactions.
That is data that are primarily managed in
a primary index that is a key value store.
This index stays in memory for
operational purposes.
However, the server also interacts with
the storage layer for persistence.
The storage layer uses three
kinds of storage systems,
in memory with a dynamic RAM or
DRAM, a regular spinning disk,
and flash/SSD, which is solid state device
for fast loading of data when needed.
In fact the Aerospike system
has optimized its performance with
characteristics of an SSD in mind.
For those of who are not sure
what an SSD is, you can think of
an SSD as a kind of storage device
whose random read performance is much
faster than speeding hard disk and the
write performance is just a little slower.
One vendor recently advertised its SSD
has sequence share read speeds of up to
2,500 MBPS and the sequential write
speeds as fast as 1,500 MBPS.
Now why is this important
in a big data discussion?
When we speak of scalability, grade
efficiency, fast transactions, and so
forth, we often do not mention
that part of the performance
guarantee is governed by the combination
of hardware and software.
So the ability to offer more efficient
persistent storage with fast IO
implies that while a significant amount
of information can be stored on disk,
it can be done without compromising
the overall system performance for
an environment that
needs fast data loading.
The second point of uniqueness
is a secondary index there.
Aerospike built secondary index
fields that are non-primary keys.
A non-primary key is a key attribute
that makes a tuple unique,
but it has not been
chosen as a primary key.
In Aerospike, secondary indices
are stored in main memory.
They are built on every node in a cluster
and co-located with the primary index.
Each secondary index entry
contains references to records,
which are local to the node.
As a key value store,
Aerospike uses standard database like
scalar types like integer, string, and
so forth, as well as lists like Reddis.
The map type is similar to the hashtag of
Reddis and contains attribute value pairs.
Since it is focused on real time web
application, it supports geospatial data,
like places with latitude and
longitude values or regency polygons.
This allows them to perform KV store
operations, for example, like is
the location of this in La Jolla,
which is a point-in-polygon query.
Or a distance query, like find hotels
within three miles of my location.
KV queries are constructed
programmatically.
Now interestingly, Aerospike also provides
a more declarative language called AQL.
AQL looks very similar to SQL,
the Standard Query Language for
relational databases.
A query like select name and
age from user star profiles projects
out the name and age values
from the profile's record set that
belongs to the ding space called users.
The language also allows
advocate functions, like sum and
average, and other user defined functions,
which the system may evaluate through
a map produced time operation.
We mentioned earlier that while most
medium assists today offer base
guarantees, Aerospike, despite being
a distributor information system,
actually offers ACID guarantees.
This is accomplished using
a number of techniques.
We'll consider a few of them to give you
a flavor of the mechanisms that current
systems use to balance between
large scale data management and
transaction management in a cluster
where nodes can join or leave.
You may recall that consistency
means two different things,
one is to ensure that all constraints,
like domain constraints, are satisfied.
The second meaning is applied
to distributor systems and
ensures all copies of a data
item in a cluster are in sync.
For operations and
single keys with replication and
secondary indices,
Aerospike provides immediate consistency
using synchronous writes to
replicas within the cluster.
Synchronous write means the write
process will be considered
successful only if
the replica is all subdated.
No other write is allowed on the record
while the object of replica is pending.
So what happens if there is an increase
in the number of write operations due to
an increase in ingestion rate?
In Aerospike, it is possible to relax
this immediate consistency condition
by bypassing some of
the consistency checks.
But if this is done, eventual
consistency will still be enforced.
Durability is achieved by storing data
in the flash SSD on every node and
performing direct reads from the flash.
Now durability is also maintained through
the process of replication because we have
multiple copies of data.
So even if one node fails, the latest copy
of the last data is available from one or
more replica nodes in the same cluster,
as well as in nodes residing
in remote clusters.
But does that just
contradict the CAP theorem?
The CAP theorem holds when
the network is partitioned.
That means when nodes in
different parts of the network
have different data content.
Aerospike reduces and tries to completely
eliminate the situation by making
sure that the master knows exactly
where all the other nodes are.
And the replication is
happening properly even when
the new nodes are joining the network.